Examples in this directory simulate a spherical micelle of AB diblock
copolymers (length N=1.0, N_A = 0.125) in a B hompolymer solvent 
(length N=1.0) with chi chosen to give a CMC of about 0.5 % by volume
(0.005 volume fraction).

----------------------------------------------------------------------
The parameter and command files param and command solve the canonical
ensemble SCFT equations for a micelle at conditions very near its cmc, 
as defined as the point where the SCFT excess grand free energy is zero. 
To run this simulation enter

>   pscf_fd -e -p param -c command 

or (to redirect log output to a file)

>   pscf_fd -e -p param -c command  > log

Resulting output concentration and chemical potential files are out.c
and out.w

----------------------------------------------------------------------
The parameter and command files param.s and command.s peform a composition
sweep that starts from the same near-cmc conditions as the above simulation
and decreases the overall copolymer concentration. This is a much longer
simulation than the first one - be prepared to wait 10 minutes or so for
it to finish. To run this simulation, enter

>   pscf_fd -e -p param.s -c command.s 

Output files are placed in the out/ subdirectory. The file named out/log 
is a summary file with one line of basic thermodynamic information per 
state point. 

Comment: This sweep ends near the minimum attainable total copolymer 
concentration for this system in this simulation cell. The micelle size 
(excess of copolymer) in a system with significant molecular solubility
is a multivalued function of total concentration. Equivalently, the 
total concentration is a non-monotonic function of micelle size that
reaches a mininum at some critical micelle size that depends on the simulation
cell size. This is a result of the fact that the concentration of dissolved 
copolymers increases with decreasing micelle size for small micelles, below 
an inflection point in the free energy curve, and that dissolved copolymer
may be a substantial fraction of the total in a system with signicant
solubility. Because the total concentration in a finite simulation domain 
is dominated by the excess for sufficiently large micelles (or small domains) 
and by the dissolved copolymer contribution for small micelles (or very large 
domains), the excess micelle size in a system with significant solubility 
increases with increasing total concentration for larger micelles but 
increases with decreasing total concentration below a critical size. The 
change in behavior occurs a a critical micelle size at which the total 
concentration is minimum. 

