--------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
RYAN'S THOUGHTS ON TO-DO

note -- since Pspc:: and Pspg:: essentially have the same classes and
design at this point, I am mainly talking about both, and when I need to 
distinguish from Fd1d:: or from Pscf:: I will use Pspx:: to denote both
Pspc:: and Pspg::.

1) It might be worth considering drawing clearer boundaries between data 
   storage and operations on said data. For example, a FieldState can be 
   an encapsulated way of storing the state of a system while not containing 
   functionality for extracting or setting said state, or reading/writing
   state from files. Why draw this distinction? There are many other 
   situations where you want to do file IO, extract system state, or set 
   system state, and all of these generally require the same safety measures
   and encapsulation. There are currently read/write functions in Pspx::System 
   to do this, and functions scattered throughout the code that essentially 
   just wrap calls to said functions, or wrap calls to a FieldIo object. I 
   think that gathering this functionality into one place would be a strong 
   improvement that would facilitate quicker development and lead to more 
   readable code.

2) In the same vein as the previous note, I also think it might be worth
   considering an attempt to unify the representations of state within
   each implementation of the psuedo-spectral periodic SCFT code. For example,
   in the CPU code, there is BasisFieldState, DArray<double>, RField, 
   RFieldDft, WField, CField, etc. And while to some extent the distinctions
   make sense (the first two are for basis format, then we have distinctions
   between real-space and fourier space fields, and then typedefs for each 
   physically different type of field, concentration and chemical potential),
   I strongly feel that the sheer number of field representations leads to 
   some confusion and a lack of interoperability between functions and 
   classes. 
   
   I think that BasisFieldState is a strong step towards encapsulating
   state. I would propose starting from there and embracing it. For example,
   making system actually store its state in BasisFieldState, RFieldState,
   and potentially KFieldState objects, rather than in field data types like
   DArray<double>. Then, "saving" a copy the system's state would be as simple 
   as making a copy of one of those objects. Plus, the entire state could be
   in one place, including things like the UnitCell and whatever else. Then, 
   it would be much easier to pass state around and keep consistent. 

3) Loosen the connections between the System singleton "god" object and the
   objects it owns and is responsible for.

   As I have worked on development of pscfpp, one point that has tended to 
   cause issues is the strength of the connection between System and everything
   else. Generally, many things have a pointer to the system, and makes
   modifications to the System object's state, in whatever order is dictated 
   by the program. This fundamentally breaks encapsulation: the state of the 
   System is not the sole responsibility of the System. In fact, managing the 
   state of the System is everywhere. Plus, 

   For example, consider the case of the iterator. Currently, the iterator 
   knows about the System class and gets a lot of the information it needs
   from the system class. However, this makes the iterator very very 
   dependent on the state of the System. This makes sense for solving the
   problem of course, also leads to potential side effects. What if the 
   iterator does something besides iterate? As a developer coming into the 
   project, can I trust that it won't? The answer right now is definitively
   no, it can't be trusted to only iterate. And what does it mean to "only
   iterate"? There are many operations done during iteration that could mess
   up the state of the system if interrupted, or if they fail. If the program
   needed to continue after a failed iteration for some reason, this would 
   currently necessitate some way of reverting the system state, like the 
   pattern seen in sweep where you have to decide whether to accept a change.

   My proposition would be to adjust classes that make calls to the System
   to instead take the data and functionality they require as parameters.
   Though this leads to more complicated signatures for methods, it also leads
   to far more predictable method and class behavior. Given a certain input, 
   we can rest assured that we will get a certain output. 

   As an example, I will give some very loose ideas about how one might do 
   this for AmIterator. Currently, Pspx::AmIterator() takes as input a System
   by reference. The member functions of AmIterator use the System to get data
   from its associated Mixture, Basis (or mesh), Interaction, and UnitCell. 
   
   What are these used for? 
      -- Mixture: used for getting the number of monomers, and in the flexible
         case getting the stress or computing the stress.
      -- UnitCell: used only in the flexible case, for getting the number of 
         parameters, and getting/setting the parameters.
      -- Basis/Mesh: used exclusive for getting the number of field elements.
      -- Interaction: used for describing the strength of interaction between
         monomers. 
   
   And what does the iterator really need? It needs an initial guess, a way of 
   evaluating the "function", and a way of calculating the residuals, and a way
   to output its result. This could all be accounted for by passing in "the 
   function" which is defined in the Mixture object, "the initial guess" which
   could be contained by a FieldState (along with the initial unit cell), 
   and 

   This could all be accounted for in the following way. The mixture could be 
   passed in as it essentially defines "the function" to compute along with
   providing the information required for SCF residual calculation, the 
   FieldState object could be passed in as "the initial guess" (also containing
   a UnitCell), and the output could then be returned in the form of a new 
   FieldState object (or potentially by modifying a FieldState parameter
   passed by reference). This leaves one sticking point -- what about the 
   interaction class? My argument is that that is more closely associated with
   the Mixture than anything else, and should be a part of Mixture rather than
   a part of System. This would be consistent with the mixture "defining the
   function." 

   This pattern would lead to very little hard-coded dependency of the iterator
   on anything outside of it. As a result, changing things outside of it would
   be easier, and so would changing things inside of it. 
   
   By following this approach throughout the code, such that there are fewer
   calls by objects "lower on the hierarchy" to objects "across and up the
   hierarchy" (where I am thinking of the object hierarchy with System on top
   and the objects it owns and objects each object owns as branches down the 
   tree), we could achieve a more encapsulated and simultaneously more flexible
   program that is really nicely set up for development, maintenance, and 
   optimization. Plus, testing gets a lot easier!

Okay, that is a lot, and some of it implies some major overhauls to how things
work. My recommendation for an initial approach would be to start with cleaning
up field and state setting/getting/reading/writing operations, as well as the 
various field representations. This would be a major step forward and lead to 
an easier environment to develop within. From there, changing how the program
treats state such that everything is using one thing (like FieldState objects)
would be another major step forward. From there, removing dependency of other 
objects on a parent system should be actually a relatively small task, as 
passing around state becomes far more agile. 

Why do or consider this? Well, from my perspective, which has the potential
to differ from other peoples' perspectives, these changes would drastically 
improve a few key things: maintainability, readability, and flexibility of the 
code. Maintenance would be easier because, in general, stricter encapsulation
allows you to "move on" from something. Readability would be better because you
would generally find all (or at least a higher percentage) of the behavior
associated with a given object in that object's class, rather than scattered. 
You wouldn't have to worry as much about how changing functions on one object
could lead to tangential mutations of the state of other objects. Flexibility
would also improve because you can trust certain things to "do exactly what it
says on the box", i.e.: no side/tangential effects. Then, you can re-use code 
with greater impunity! 

There are likely other ways to accomplish these goals, and I think that
any adjustments with the intention of creating more appropriate encapsulation 
and reducing connections within the code will likely have a net positive
effect, even when considering time required for implementation.