
Goal: Create a system that makes it convenient to perform any of

    - SCFT with an imposed space group
    - SCFT with no imposed space group (iteration on a grid)
    - FTMC with no imposed space group

Behaviors:

1) The groupName parameter in the Domain block of the parameter file will
be optional. If it is present, the group symmetry operations are immediately 
read from file and Domain::hasGroup() is set true. Any space group that is
declared in the parameter file is immutable thereafter - you can omit the
choice of space group, but cannot declare a space group in the parameter
file and then change the choice of space group after initialization.

2) If you want to use a space group for any purpose you have to declare a
group name in the parameter file. If the group name parameter is absent, 
you can perform field theoretic Monte Carlo and other operations that don't
assume the existence of symmetry, but you cannot use an SCFT iterature that
imposes symmetry. 

3) If Domain::hasGroup is true (if the parameter file has a space group name):

     - One can read field files in basis format. The header for each such 
       files must contain a space group name, and that name must match the
       one declared in the parameter file.

     - The presence of a space group in the header of an r-grid or k-grid
       file is optional. If a space group is present, it must match that
       declared in the parameter file.  Initially, any space group name
       declared in the header of such a file will otherwise be ignored, 
       but we may change that later (see below). 

4) If Domain::hasGroup is false:

     - Files in basis format cannot be read. An Exception will be thrown
       if you attempt to read a file in basis format after reading a
       parameter file with no declared space group.

     - Files in r-grid and k-grid format may not contain a space group
       in the file header.

5) If a W-field file read in basis format, the WFieldContainer isSymmetric
flag is set to true to indicate that the field has a known symmetry. 
A W field is symmetric if and only if it was input in basis format, and 
has only been modified by an iterator that preserves symmetry. Use of an
iterator that does not preserve symmetry or modification by a stochastic
field theoretic simulation is assumed to destroy an symmetry.  Knowledge of 
whether of a set of W field is symmetric is thus retained, and can be
traced back to the type of file from which it was input. 

6) C fields that are computed from a symmetric w-field are also assumed to 
be symmetric.

7) Initially, any W field that is input in r-grid or k-grid format will be 
assumed to have no symmetry (i.e., WFieldContainer::isSymmetric is set false 
on input). We can consider changing this later by taking the field to be 
symmetric iff the header has a declared space group. A bit of thought is 
needed to decide if we should just assume the declaration to be correct, 
or impose automatic double checks. 

8) When a W or C field is written to a file in r-grid or k-grid format, a 
space group will be written to the header if and only if the field is known 
to be symmetric (i.e., if isSymmetric == true for the associated w field). 
This implies, among other things, that header files for outputs of field 
theoretic Monte Carlo (FTMC) trajectory and configuration output files will 
never contain a space group name. 

9) Normal usage for FTMC simulations will be that there is no space group 
name in either the parameter file or in the header of any input or output 
field file. FTMC and symmetric SCFT simulations will not normally be 
performed in the same command file. 

9) The Rpc::Iterator and Rpg::Iterator bases classes have a protected
boolean variable isSymmetric_ and a public function isSymmetric() that
returns isSymmetric_. This flag is set true in Iterator classes that update 
fields using the symmetry-adapted Fourier basis and false in classes that 
update values on a r-grid or k-grid without imposing any symmetry. The 
System::iterate function checks that the a symmetric iterator is only 
applied to fields for which WFieldContainer::isSymmetric == true. 
An iterator that does not apply symmetry exists for pscf_pg, and we could
create one for pscf_pc if desired anyone wanted to do large unit cell
calculations on CPU hardware. 

10) When Domain::isSymmetric is false, attempting to construct an Iterator 
that is symmetric will cause an Exception to be thrown.

