
Overview of Current PSCF Code Structure (for collaborators):
------------------------------------------------------------

The C++ version of PSCF was designed as a package that that could contain 
several largely largely independent implementations of SCFT, while minimizing
duplication of code for algorithms and data structures that can be used by
two or more implementations.  Different "implementations" of SCFT are code
bases that are compiled to created collections of code that are used to 
create separate programs that differ may differ in, among other things:

   - The type of spatial domain for which they are defined 
   - The hardware on which they are designed to run
   - The type of molecular model they are designed to treat
   - The algorithm used to solve the modified diffusion equation, if 
     this effects the choice of data structure used to describe fields

The package currently contains the following three implementations:

   - pscf_fd: Finite-difference code for 1D problems
   - pscf_pc: CPU code for periodic structures, using pseudo-spectral solver
   - pscf_pg: GPU code for periodic structures, using pseudo-spectral solver

The decision of whether the addition of some new capability requires the 
creation of a entirely new SCFT implementation depends in large part on 
whether it can be implemented without making incompatible changes to the
data structures used by some existing implementation. 

For example, the GPU and CPU codes for periodic microstructures are 
closely analogous, but were written as separate implementations because 
they require different types of containers to represent fields. The GPU 
code is built around a set of containers for fields and discrete Fourier 
transforms of fields in which the data is stored in large arrays in GPU 
global memory (for which one must prohibit element-by-element access 
from the host CPU), while the CPU code uses containers in which the 
data is stored in dynamically allocated memory on the CPU (for which
access of elements via a subscript operator [] is allowed).  It is 
possible that these two implementations could have been combined with 
enough thought about how to encapsulate operations that involve access 
to data that might be stored on the GPU, but I found it easier develop 
them as separate but closely analogous codes.  We have concluded, 
however, that it will be straightforward for us to develop field 
theoretic Monte Carlo sampling algorithms based on a partial saddle-point 
approximation as added features of the existing pscf_pc and pscf_pg 
programs. This is possible because this algorithm uses real fields, 
and thus requires data structures that are compatible with those 
already used by these programs. Conversely, we plan to create another
separate GPU-based implementation to implement complex Langevin
sampling, because the modified diffusion equation (MDE) solvers and
data structures for this method require the use of variables and data 
structures that can accomodate complex chemical potential and propagator 
fields.

Namespaces and Libraries
------------------------

PSCF uses a system of C++ namespaces to separate code associated with
different SCFT implementations. All code that is specific to the PSCF
package (i.e., not shared with other entirely separate projects) is 
defined within a namespace named Pscf. A nested sub-namespace of Pscf
is defined for each SCFT implementation. For example, the package
currently contains namespaces:
 
   Pscf::Fd1d - Classes for the pscf_fd finite difference 1D code
   Pscf::Pspc - Classes for the pscf_pc periodic CPU code
   Pscf::Pspg - Classes for the pscf_pc periodic CPU code

The name Pspc was intended to mean "pseudo-spectral periodic CPU" while 
Pspg was intended to mean "pseudo-spectral periodic GPU".  Classes that 
I expected to be usable in two or more implementations are defined 
directly in the Pscf namespaces, while classes that are only used in 
one implementation are defined directly in the subnamespace for that 
implementation.  

In addition to the Pscf namespace, the package uses code defined in a 
separate namespace named Util that contains more generally useful code 
for scientfic computation. The code in the Util namespace is maintained 
in a separate public github repository (dmorse/util), and is included 
within the pscf code as a git sub-module. 

This namespace structure is designed to allow the use of identical
names for analogous classes within different SCFT implementations. 
For example, each of the three existing implementations currently 
has classes or class templates named:

     System   - parent object (entire simulation)
     Mixture  - Container holding MDE solvers for molecular species
     Polymer  - MDE solver for one polymer type
     Solvent  - statistical mechanics solver for one solvent type
     Block    - one block of a block polymer
     Iterator - base class for iterators in one implementation
     Domain   - description of the spatial domain and discretization

among others. The same name can be used for analogous classes or 
class templates in different SCFT implementations without causing 
name clashes as long as we are careful to prohibit any sharing of
code between implementation-level sub-namespaces of the higher 
level Pscf namespace.

Almost every source code file throughout the project contains a
"using namespace Util" declaration in order to allow classes that 
are defined in the Util namespace to be used without qualifying 
the name with the prefixes "Util::" or "Pscf::". 

Currently, all of the classes that are defined directly in the Pscf 
namespace (rather than a sub-namespace) and all of the classes in 
the Pscf::Fd1d and Pscf::Pspc enclosed namespaces can be compiled 
with a C++ compiler, while a CUDA compiler is only required to 
compile the code in the Pscf::Pspg namespace. 

Use of Dimension D of Space as a C++ Template Parameter
-------------------------------------------------------

The code for periodic structures in namespaces Pscf::Pspc and Pscf::Pspg
consistently treats the dimension of space as C++ parameter, and is
designed to produce different executable files for programs designed
treat structures that are periodic in 1D (e.g., lamellar), 2D (e.g.,
hexagonal), or 3D (e.g., BCC, gyroid, etc.). This is done by defining
almost all of the classes in these implementation-level namespaces as
class templates in which the dimension D of space is provided as a 
template parameter. Thus, for example, the parent System class is
actually defined as a class template

    template <int D>
    class System {
      ...
    }

A similar type of class template is used for most other classes, 
including Mixture, Polymer, Block, Iterator, Domain, etc. For these
implementations, the  actual type of the main system object for a 
3D simulation is thus System<3>, rather than just System, and the
type of the Mixture object is actually Mixture<3>. The treatment of 
D as a template parameter allows us to generate efficient code with 
appropriate data structures for, e.g., vectors and space group
operations, for each value of D without any code duplication. The
cost is the heavy use of templates, which complicates compilation.

More technical note: To simplify the build process for code that makes 
such heavy us of templates, template instances with D=1, D=2, and D=3 
are explicitly instantiated and compiled for every class template that
takes D as its only template parameter. An "extern template" 
declaration is used for each such template instance to prevent 
implicit instantiation and allow linkage to these precompiled template
instances.

Comments on Current Class Organization 
---------------------------------------

The current organization of namespaces is designed to allow for two
different types of classes, namely, classes that are available for
use in any SCFT implementation, and classes that are used only in a
single implementation.  

Classes that are available for use in any SCFT implementation, are 
defined in the root namespace Pscf, and are currently placed in the 
src/pscf directory.  Different subdirectories of src/pscf contain 
classes designed for different purposes. The most important 
subdirectories are:

  src/pscf/mesh    - regular spatial mesh and mesh iterators
  src/pscf/crystal - unit cell, space groups, and symmetry-adapted basis
  src/pscf/chem    - description of chemical structure
  src/pscf/solvers - base classes for MDE solvers

Classes that are available for use in a single implementation are 
defined in the sub-namespace associated with that implementation. 
The use of different namespaces for different implementations is 
designed to allow for the use of identical names for closely analogous 
classes without causing name clashes.
For example, the solver and field classes for CPU and GPU codes for 
periodic structures are separate classes with similar or identical 
names, but are defined in the Pscf::Pspc and Pscf::Pspg namespaces,
respectively. 

One limitation of this design is that it does not allow for the
existence of classes that might be needed in two or more different
implementations, but that are closely analogous to classes used in
a different subset of implememtations. The specific case of concern
here would arise if we wanted to develop CPU and GPU variants of
the PSCF+ GPU code, while avoiding forking of the PSCF code (as
done currently) and while avoiding unnecessary code repetition. 
Such a redesigned variant of PSCF+ would be designed for periodic
structures but would use a molecular model with discrete atoms 
and compressible, finite range interactions rather than an
incompressible model of continuous Gaussian chains. 

Because PSCF+ is designed for periodic structures, it should be able 
re-use some of the container classes that are used to represent fields, 
and classes such as the FFT classes that define operations on fields.  
Reuse is made difficult, however, by the fact that these classes are 
currently defined in Pspc and Pspg namespaces that were designed to 
be used only with a single SCFT implementation. 

Because PSCF+ is designed for a discrete chains, it may not be able
to re-use the classes and class templates in the src/pscf/chem and 
src/pscf/solvers directories. All of these classes were designed 
specifically for simulations of the  "standard model" of an 
incompressible mixture of polymer chains that are represented as 
continuous random walks and of solvent molecules that are represented 
as point particles that occupy a specified volume. It appears to me 
that variants of some or all of these should be created that are 
designed specifically for molecular models with discrete atoms. 
If classes for continous and discrete chemical models were defined
in different namespaces, however, it might be possible to use the
same names for analogous classes without causing name clashes.

The natural solution appears to be to add some subnamespaces of
Pscf that contain classes that are designed for specific types
of models (continuous vs. discrete chains, and periodic on CPU
vs. periodic on GPU) but that are available for use in multiple
SCFT implementations.
    
Proposals Regarding Design for a DFT Package
--------------------------------------------

I assume that the DFT program or programs will try to re-use existing
parts of PSCF when possible, but that the new programs will be designed
to simulate models of molecules with discrete atoms. I recommend that
each such program be designed as if it were another "implementation" 
of PSCF, that re-uses classes that are defined in the Pscf main 
namespace and the Util mainspace, but that either avoids the use of
classes defined in the Pscf::Fd1d, Pscf::Pspc, or Pscf::Pspg namespaces,
or uses these classes only with fully qualified names.

The most important protential problems one might encounter when trying
to do this using the current design of PSCF are:

1) The new code would need to be able to re-use the classes that define
data structure and FFT operations for real fields on a regular mesh.
These are currently located in pscf/pspg/fields and pscf/pspc/fields, 
and are (unfortunately) currently defined in the Pscf::Pspc and 
Pscf::Pspg namespaces.  implementation-level namespaces.

2) The new code may need new variants of the classes that describe 
chemical structure or the classes that implement MDE solvers that use 
data structures that are not compatible with those designed for use 
with the standard model of continuous chains.

I recommend that, if you pursue your project in earnest (i.e., if it 
is funded, or if you decide to pursue it even without funding) and 
you decide to try to coordinate closely with PSCF, we try to solve 
these problems as follows:

1) Define a new subnamespace of Pscf named something like Pscf::Prdc 
to contain code that is intended for use by any code that uses periodic 
boundary conditions. Define subnamespaces Pscf::Prdc::Cpu and 
Pscf::Prdc:Gpu for analogous classes that are defined to store field
data in CPU or GPU memory. Move all or almost all of the classes that 
are currently located in pspg/fields from namespace Pscf::Pspc to 
Pscf::Prdc::Gpu. Similarly, move most of the classes that are currently 
in pspg/fields to from namespace Pscf::Pspg to Pscf::Prdc::Cpu.  In the 
new GPU code, you can then using "using namespace Pscf::Prdc::Gpu" to 
allow you to access these classes by name without needing to qualify 
names with a prefix such as "Prdc::Gpu".

2) Define a new subnamespace of Pscf named Pscf::Cont to contain
classes that are defined only for use with the standard model of
continuous chains. Then define all of the classes and class 
templates in pscf/chem and pscf/solvers within this subnamespace.
These classes all define chemical structures or provide templates
or base classes for solvers using data structures and variable
name that were designed specificially for a continuous random walk 
model, but that may not be appropriate for the type of discrete model 
you want to consider (though I'm still not sure how general that model
will be). Change code in the existing PSCF implementations so as to 
access these classes, either by using qualified names or by adding
"using namespace" declarations to specify that we implicitly mean 
the versions defined in that sub-namespace within the context of 
our existing PSCF code.

3) In your new code, define a namespace named Disc or something
similar that is designed to accomodate a fairly general model of 
discrete molecules, and create analogous classes there for that 
purpose. You can access these classes within your own code either
by using fully qualified names, include "Disc::", or by using an
appropriate "using namespace" declaration to allow you to access
these names without this qualifier. 

