The following system unit test have been written:

   1) A unit test to test the constructor of the System class.

   2) A unit test to test the ReadParam function of the System class.

   3) A unit test to test the round trip between field formats and rgrid
      formats. The test see that if the round trip provides consistent 
      results, an accuracy of 1.0E-08 is used. Test for bcc, hex(cylinders)
      and lamellar are written. 

   4) A unit test to see if we get the same converged solution as the fortran code
      for bcc, hex(cylinders) and lamellar phase are also written. The comparison 
      is done between the omega fields generated by this code and the fortran code 
      for the respective phases. An accuracy of the order of 1.0E-07 is used. 

   5) A unit test to see if we get the same solution (with no domain relaxation)
      as the fortran code for bcc, hex(cylinders) and lamellar phase are also written. 
      The comparison is done between the omega fields generated by this code and the 
      fortran code for the respective phases. An accuracy of the order of 1.0E-07 is 
      used. This aspect has been highlighted in the code wherever required. 
      In the same unit test the value of stress calculated is also checked with fortran
      code. The initial guess unit cell dimensions are set as the unit cell dimensions 
      obtained for the solutions converged with domain relaxation. So the final stress 
      for this tests should be 0. For lam and hex, the final stress is less than 1.0E-08.
      For bcc, this condition is final stress is instead set to be less than 1.0E-07.


#Files 

omega.ref  : Respective omega files which are the converged solution generated from the 
             fortran code.
omega.in : Respective omega files used as an initial guess for the tests. These are the 
           converged solutions at \chi N = 40.9999, \chi N = 19 and \chi N = 14 for bcc, 
           hex and lam respectively.
param.flex : Input parameter file for tests with domain relaxation on.
param.rigid : Input parameter file for tests with domain relaxation off. 
