The following system unit test have been written:

   1) A unit test to test the constructor of the System class.

   2) A unit test to test the ReadParam function of the System class.

   3) A unit test to test the round trip between field formats and rgrid
      formats. The test see that if the round trip provides consistent 
      results, an accuracy of 1.0E-08 is used. Test for bcc, hex(cylinders)
      and lamellar are written. 

   4) A unit test to see if we get the same converged solution as the fortran code
      for bcc, hex(cylinders) and lamellar phase are also written. The comparison 
      is done between the omega fields generated by this code and the fortran code 
      for the respective phases. An accuracy of the order of 1.0E-07 is used in some 
      phases. This is because for some phases 1.0E-08 accuracy was not achieved. This
      aspect has been highlighted in the code wherever required.

   5) A unit test to see if we get the same solution (with no domain relaxation)
      as the fortran code for bcc, hex(cylinders) and lamellar phase are also written. 
      The comparison is done between the omega fields generated by this code and the 
      fortran code for the respective phases. An accuracy of the order of 1.0E-07 is 
      used in some phases. This is because for some phases 1.0E-08 accuracy was not 
      achieved. This aspect has been highlighted in the code wherever required. 
      In the same unit test the value of stress calculated is also checked with fortran
      code. An accuracy of 1.0E-08 is set for all three phases and is achieved for
      the three phases.

#Files

The contents folder also has these folders. 

contents/omega/domainOn  : This folder has the respective omega files which are the 
                           converged solution generated from the fortran code.
contents/omega/domainOff : This folder has the respective omega files which are the 
                           converged solution generated from the fortran code.
                           Domain relaxation was switched off to generate these files.
contents/param/domainOn  : This folder has the respective parameter files which were 
                           used to generate a relaxed converged solution.
contents/param/domainOff  : This folder has the respective parameter files which were 
                           used to generate a non-relaxed converged solution.  
